OSDOCS MCO 4.22 RN (#111917)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rn-ocp-release-notes-new-features.adoc

[id="ocp-release-notes-machine-config-operator_{context}"]
== Machine Config Operator

> Booting nodes into a custom machine config pool::

Reviewer: Cannot use gerunds as RN headings

+

> After you create a custom machine config pool, you can boot new nodes directly to the pool by creating a new machine set. Previously, you needed to create the node in the worker machine config pool, then move the node into the custom machine config pool, which requires a node reboot. By launching the node directly into the new pool, you save a node reboot cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create a custom machine config pool, you can boot new nodes directly to the pool by creating a new machine set. Before this update, you needed to create the node in the worker machine config pool, then move the node into the custom machine config pool, which requires a node reboot. By launching the node directly into the new pool, you save a node reboot cycle.
```

+
For information, see xref:../machine_configuration/machine-config-custom-mcp.adoc#machine-config-custom-mcp-automatic_machine-config-creating-custom-mcp[Creating a custom machine config pool with a new node].

Boot image skew enforcement::
+
When boot image skew enforcement is active in a cluster, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) examines the boot image version reported in the `MachineConfiguration` object to determine if that boot image is appropriate for the cluster. If the boot image version is too old, the Operator reports that boot image version skew is detected and blocks cluster updates until you manually update the boot image or disable boot image skew enforcement.
+
For more information, see xref:../machine_configuration/mco-update-boot-skew-mgmt.adoc#mco-update-boot-skew-mgmt[Boot image skew enforcement].

Boot image management for control plane nodes is generally available::
+

> The boot image management feature for control plane nodes is now generally available. With boot image management enabled, you can configure your cluster to update the node boot image whenever you update your cluster. Previously, updating boot images was supported only for worker nodes. Support for boot image management for control plane nodes was introduced in {product-title} 4.21, and is now generally available in 4.22. The boot image management feature for control plane nodes is not supported for {vmw-first}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The boot image management feature for control plane nodes is now generally available. With boot image management enabled, you can configure your cluster to update the node boot image whenever you update your cluster. Before this update, updating boot images was supported only for worker nodes. Support for boot image management for control plane nodes was introduced in {product-title} 4.21, and is now generally available in 4.22. The boot image management feature for control plane nodes is not supported for {vmw-first}.
```

+
For more information, see xref:../machine_configuration/mco-update-boot-images.adoc#machine-configs-configure[Boot image management].

Boot image management is now default for {azure-short} and {vmw-short}::
+

> The boot image management feature is now the default behavior in {azure-short} and {vmw-short} clusters. As such, after updating to {product-title} 4.22, the boot images in your cluster are automatically updated to version 4.22. With subsequent updates, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) again updates the boot images in your cluster. Any new nodes you create after updating are based on the new version. Current nodes are not affected by this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, the boot image management feature is the default behavior in {azure-short} and {vmw-short} clusters. As such, after updating to {product-title} 4.22, the boot images in your cluster are automatically updated to version 4.22. With subsequent updates, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) again updates the boot images in your cluster. Any new nodes you create after updating are based on the new version. Current nodes are not affected by this feature.
```

+
Before upgrading to 4.22, you must opt-out of this default behavior or acknowledge this change before proceeding. For information on opting out, see xref:../machine_configuration/mco-update-boot-images.adoc#mco-update-boot-images-disable_machine-configs-configure[Disabling boot image management].
+
For more information on the boot image management feature, see xref:../machine_configuration/mco-update-boot-images.adoc#mco-update-boot-images_machine-configs-configure[Boot image management].

> Boot image update documentation::

Reviewer: this is interesting. I am probably seeing a documentation update for the first time. Have we done that before?

Author: @snarayan-redhat I _think_ I have added a documentation update before. I will ask in Slack
